[Music]
israel the world's
only jewish state located east of the
mediterranean sea and palestine the
territory of the arab population
that hails from the israel-controlled
land have long been known for their
enduring conflict with the israeli
occupation of the west bank
and the gaza strip the tension between
israel and palestine has been
deteriorating in years
climaxing with many violent clashes
between the two sides
to understand the root of the
israel-palestine conflict
we have to look back a few thousand
years ago
early history of israeli-palestinian
conflict
in the 17th centuries bc following the
call of god
three patriarchs of the jewish people
abraham isaac and jacob
settled in kanaan a region approximating
present-day
israel the west bank and the gaza strip
parts of lebanon
syria and jordan the region later had
the name the land of israel
the promised land the palestine region
or the holy land
in 1000 bc king saul established the
israelite monarchy
which then was ruled by king david who
made jerusalem the capital of his
kingdom
and his son king solomon who built the
first temple in jerusalem
after the death of king solomon the
united monarchy was split into the
kingdom of israel in the north
with samaria as the capital and the
kingdom of judah in the south with
jerusalem as the capital
the land became home to a majority of
jews but then it was subject to numerous
conquests of various groups
leading to the significant decrease of
the jewish population
on the land one of these conquests was
conducted by the roman empire
who gave the name palestine to judah
intending to break the jewish connection
with the land of israel
during this time christianity which
started as a jewish sect
ultimately became a dominant religion
toward the end of the roman empire
in the 7th century came an arab conquest
beginning the spread of islam
the dome of the rock was built on the
ruin of the second temple
making jerusalem the holy city to three
monotheistic religions
judaism christianity and islam
after christians in jerusalem were
intensely persecuted by the seljuk turks
a central asian empire with ambition to
expand its territory
christians in europe launched several
crusades to bring the holy city back to
the hand
of the christians during this time many
jews were killed
others were making pilgrimages
everywhere mostly in western europe
from the 16th century to world war 1 the
holy land along with much of the middle
east
was ruled by the ottoman empire an
islamic superpower
the land was unofficially called
palestine
at the same time in europe more and more
jews were joining a movement called
zionism
aiming to create a jewish national state
in its ancient homeland
hence in the first decade of the 20th
century tens of thousands of jews moved
from europe
back to the region
israel and palestine under the british
rule
world war 1 exploded and ended with the
collapse of the ottoman empire
its land in the middle east was carved
by the british and french empires
the british then gave more independence
for iraq and jordan
and the region remaining under the
control of britain was what it called
the british mandate for palestine
where britain promised to establish a
jewish national homeland
under its balfour declaration which went
into effect in 1923.
tensions between the jews and the arabs
who both claimed the land grew
which even led to acts of violence by
the 1930s following the
increasing jewish population in
palestine due to the fear of persecution
during the nazi reign in germany
the british limited jewish immigration
in response the jewish militias formed
to both fight the arabs
and resist the british rule then came
the holocaust throughout nazi germany
which claimed almost 6 million jewish
lives
after the war more and more jews then
fled from europe to palestine to seek a
homeland
escalating the tension with the arabs
overwhelmed by the situation
britain began to withdraw from the
region
the birth of the israel state
after world war ii the u.n proposed a
plan to partition palestine
into two independent states a jewish
state
and an arab state with the city of
jerusalem becoming an international zone
with a special status however the plan
according to which the jewish
accounting for only one-third of the
population was granted more territory
56.5 of the land was rejected by the
arabs
they began to form volunteer armies
throughout palestine
less than one year after that as britain
completed its withdrawal from palestine
israel declared itself an independent
state marking a new bloodier chapter in
the struggle
between the jews and the palestinian
arabs
the 1948 arab israeli war
right after the announcement of an
independent israel
a war between the arabs and the jews
broke out which was known as the 1948
arab israeli war the war involved five
recently independent arab nations
egypt jordan iraq syria and lebanon
the arab league who invaded the region
in an attempt to establish a
unified arab palestine however a
ceasefire agreement was reached a year
later
in which more than two-thirds of
historic palestine including the west
jerusalem
belonged to israel while jordan occupied
east jerusalem
and the area known as the west bank and
egypt occupied the gaza strip
as a result more than 750 000
palestinians were expelled from the land
where they lived for centuries
on the day that they call al-nakba or
the catastrophe
with the deteriorated dispute between
the jews and the arabs there came more
wars in fighting in the following
decades
[Music]
the 60-day war
it was in 1967 when the 60-day war broke
out
after a volatile period of diplomatic
friction and skirmishes between
israel and its neighboring arab states
jordan syria and
egypt this brief war ended with the
victory of israel
giving israel control over the golan
heights from syria
the west bank and east jerusalem from
jordan and gaza and the sinai peninsula
from egypt sinai was later returned to
egypt under the egypt
israel peace treaty after the war most
palestinian refugees and their
descendants
were not allowed to return to their
homes but had to live in gaza
the west bank in neighboring jordan
syria and lebanon
the first intifada and the oslo accords
the rising number of israelis settling
in the palestinian territories in the
west bank and
gaza gave rise to the plo the
palestinian liberation organization
first founded in cairo egypt in 1964
to create a liberated palestine in
israel
the plo launched attacks on israel from
its base in jordan
it was then forced to move from jordan
to lebanon starting to carry out acts of
terrorism against israel
fighting went on for years including the
israeli invasion of lebanon to kick the
plo out of beirut
the plo eventually agreed to divide the
land between palestine and
israel but there were still more and
more jewish settlers moved
into the israel-occupied palestinian
territories
in 1987 a violent palestinian uprising
was ignited
starting from the jabilaya refugee camp
after an israeli defense forces truck
collided with two palestinian civilian
vans
killing four of them this was known as
the first intifada
this bloody conflict resulting in
hundreds of deaths triggered a peace
process with the signing of the oslo
accords by israel
and the plo the oslo one accord signed
in washington dc
and the oslo ii accord in taba egypt
according to the oslo accords the west
bank was divided
into three areas area a was exclusively
controlled by the palestinians
area b was controlled by both the
palestinians and
israel area c was fully controlled by
israel
the second intifada
though further peace talks continued in
2000 the israelis and palestinians could
not reach agreements on issues
like the status of jerusalem rights of
refugees and the
increased jewish settlement in
palestinian lands
ariel sharon a jewish israeli who would
later become israel's prime minister
visited the temple mount home to the
al-aqsa mosque
in jerusalem the action was deemed
offensive by many palestinians
and the second intifada broke out the
violence ended with israel's withdrawal
from gaza
but continued to settle in the west bank
israel conflict with hamas
hamas is a sunni islamist militant group
aiming to destroy the state of israel
and create an islamic state after the
armed conflict between hamas and fatah
who managed the plo
hamas split from the palestinian
authority and gained power
in the gaza israel put gaza under a
suffocating blockade
leading to several bloody wars between
the two groups in the gaza strip
including operation cast lead operation
pillar of defense
and operation protective edge in 2014
hamas and fatah reached agreement to
form a national unity government
in 2018 the u.s embassy was relocated
from tel aviv to jerusalem
which was deemed by the palestinians as
a signal of american support for
jerusalem
as israel's capital 2021
the conflict between israel and
palestine was reassumed by a series of
hostile events in east jerusalem
leading to several acts of violence
until a ceasefire deal brokered by egypt
qatar and the united nations came into
effect on may 21st
peaceful though it may seem now the
complex and long-lasting territorial
dispute between two states
is a ticking time bomb that can explode
anytime
thanks for watching if you find this
information useful please give us a
thumbs up and share it with your friends
don't forget to subscribe to our channel
for more videos of history